Add support for the translation of schemas into Welsh (#309)
ONSdigital/eq-questionnaire-schemas: README.md

A registry for questionnaire schemas for eq-questionnaire-runner.

## Setup

It is recommended that you use [Pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) to manage your Python installations.

### Install Poetry

We use poetry to manage the dependencies in this repository, to install poetry use:

```
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

Install the dependencies for this project using
```
poetry install
```

## Validating Schemas

A make target exists (`validate-schemas`) in order to validate schemas locally using eq-questionnaire-validator docker image.

To do this run `make run-validator` to run the validator and then run `make validate-schemas` to validate the schemas.

**Schema file names must use snake case to be compatible with runner**

## Translations

** N.B. Currently only supporting translations for Health themed surveys (PHM).

> Ensure that the latest release of the eq-translations repository has been installed before running any of the following scripts (the release version is checked automatically when running translations, scripts will not run if the release is out of date.)

Reviewer: There is no action here. I would reword to:
```suggestion
The latest release of the eq-translations package is required to successfully run the translation scripts. The release version is checked automatically when running translations commands and the scripts will error if the release version does not match the installed version.
```

### Generating Translation Templates

To generate a translation template `.pot` file in order to translate a schema, use the following command. It will generate a template file containing all the strings to be translated:
```
make translation-templates
```

### Generating Translated Schemas

> To translate a schema, a `.po` file for the schema will need to be added to the `translations/{THEME}/{LANGUAGE_CODE}` directory containing strings from the schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To translate a schema, a `.po` file for the schema will need to be added to the `translations/{SURVEY_TYPE}/{LANGUAGE_CODE}/` directory containing strings from the schema. For example, `translations/health/cy/`
```

and the matching translations. 

> The `.po` file needs to be named in the following format: `{SCHEMA_NAME}_{LANGUAGE_CODE}.po`

Reviewer: If it is in a language specific folder, then why does the filename need the language code?. I would drop the code that requires it, as you should already be in the context of a language folder.

Author: Removed this 👍

Once this in place, the following command can be run in order to generate a translated
schema:
```
make translate-schemas
```

> The translated schema will be added to the `/schemas/{THEME}/{LANGUAGE_CODE}` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The translated schema will be added to the `/schemas/{SURVEY_TYPE}/{LANGUAGE_CODE}/` directory.
```

A registry for questionnaire schemas for eq-questionnaire-runner.

## Setup

It is recommended that you use [Pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) to manage your Python installations.

Use pyenv to install the desired version of Python:
```

> pyenv install <version>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pyenv install
```

```

Check the installed version of Python is correct with:
```
python --version
```

### Install Poetry

We use poetry to manage the dependencies in this repository, to install poetry use:

```
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

> Install the dependencies for this project using, add the option `--without dev` to ignore dev dependencies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the dependencies for this project. Add the option `--without dev` to ignore dev dependencies. 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we add a mention about `test-translation-templates` from MAKEFILE?

Author: Added now 👍

**Schema file names must use snake case to be compatible with runner**

## Generating translated schemas

** N.B. Currently only supporting translations for Health themed surveys (PHM).

Before running any translations script it is important to check that the latest release of the eq-translations repo is being
used. This can be done using:
```angular2html
make translations-check
```

To generate a translation template `.pot` file in order to translate a schema, use the following command. It will generate a template file containing all the strings to be translated:

> ```angular2html

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need these `angular2html` tags.

**Schema file names must use snake case to be compatible with runner**

> ## Generating translated schemas

Reviewer: Since author will be using this repo, we need to add a section about how to set up and install the dependencies. So how to install python (pyenv), how to install poetry, and how to install the dependencies.

** N.B. Currently only supporting translations for Health themed surveys (PHM).

Before running any translations script it is important to check that the latest release of the eq-translations repo is being
used. This can be done using:
```
make translations-check
```

To generate a translation template `.pot` file in order to translate a schema, use the following command. It will generate a template file containing all the strings to be translated:
```
make translation-templates
```

To translate a schema, a `.po` file for the schema will need to be added to the `translations/{THEME}/{LANGUAGE_CODE}` directory containing strings from the schema
and the matching translations. 

The `.po` file needs to be named in the following format: `{SCHEMA_NAME}_{LANGUAGE_CODE}.po`

Once this in place, the following command can be run in order to generate a translated
schema:
```
make translate-schemas
```
The translated schema will be added to the `/schemas/{THEME}/{LANGUAGE_CODE}` directory.

To check that translations are up to date use the following command (This check will run automatically when a pull request is raised):
```
make test-translate-templates

> ```

Reviewer: I would title these for clarity.
- Generating Translation Templates
- Generating Translated Schemas
- Testing Translation Templates
